The scarlet macaw (Ara macao) is a large red, yellow, and blue Central and South American parrot, a member of a large group of Neotropical parrots called macaws. 
It is native to humid evergreen forests of tropical Central and South America. Range extends from south-eastern Mexico to the Peruvian Amazon, Ecuador, Colombia, Bolivia, Venezuela and Brazil in lowlands of 500 m (1,640 ft) (at least formerly) up to 1,000 m (3,281 ft). In some areas, it has suffered local extinction because of habitat destruction or capture for the parrot trade, but in other areas it remains fairly common. Formerly it ranged north to southern Tamaulipas. It can still be found on the island of Coiba.
It is the national bird of Honduras.
Like its relative the blue-and-yellow macaw, scarlet macaws are popular birds in aviculture as a result of their striking plumage.


A typical sighting is of a single bird or a pair flying above the forest canopy, though in some areas flocks can be seen. They may gather at clay licks.[8] Scarlet macaws communicate primarily through raucous honks; however, vocal communication is highly variable, and captive macaws are known to be adept mimics of human speech.


The habitat of scarlet macaws is also considered to have the greatest latitudinal range for any bird in the genus Ara, as the estimated maximum territorial range covers 6,700,000 km2. Nevertheless, the scarlet macaw's habitat is fragmented, and the bird is mostly confined to tiny populations scattered throughout its original range in Middle America.[13] However, as they still occur in large numbers over most of their original range in South America, the species is classified by IUCN as least concern.[1]
A pair of scarlet macaws at Lowry Park Zoo in Tampa, Florida.
It is listed on CITES Appendix 1 due to predation for the pet and cage bird trade.[14] Both subspecies are listed by USFWS as endangered.[15]



The list of macaws includes 19 species of macaws including extinct and critically endangered species,[1] and does not include several hypothetical extinct species that have been proposed based on very little evidence:
Anodorhynchus
The three well-established species in the genus Anodorhynchus are monotypic:[1]

Species
Common and binomial names[1]	Image	Description	Range
Glaucous macaw
(Anodorhynchus glaucus)	Anodorhynchus glaucus.jpg	70 cm (27.5 in) long, mostly pale turquoise-blue with a large greyish head. It has a long tail and a large bill. It has a yellow, bare eye-ring and half-moon-shaped lappets bordering the mandible.[3]	South America
(probably extinct)
Hyacinth macaw
or hyacinthine macaw
(Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus)	Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus -Australia Zoo -8-2c.jpg	100 cm (39 in) long, 120-140 cm (48-56 in) wingspan. It is almost entirely blue and has black under the wings. It has a large black beak with bright yellow along the sides of the lower part of the beak and also yellow eyerings.[4]	South America
Lear's macaw
or indigo macaw
(Anodorhynchus leari)	Anodorhynchus leari by Edward Lear.jpg	70 cm (27.5 in) long, mainly blue and the head is a slightly paler blue. It has bare pale yellow skin at the base of its beak and orange-yellow eyerings. It has a large blackish beak.[5]	Brazil
Cyanopsitta
Cyanopsitta
Common and binomial names[1]	Image	Description	Range
Spix's macaw
or little blue macaw
(Cyanopsitta spixii)	
Spixara.jpg
55–57 cm (22–22 in) long. Various shades of blue, including a pale blue head, pale blue underparts, and vivid blue upperparts, wings and tail.[6]	Brazil (probably extinct in the wild)
Ara
Ara
Common and binomial names[1]	Image	Description	Range[7]
Great green macaw
or Buffon's macaw
(Ara ambiguus)	
Ara ambigua1.JPG
85–90 cm (33–36 in) long. Mostly green, red on forehead, green and blue wings[8]	Central and South America, from Honduras to Ecuador
Blue-and-yellow macaw
or blue-and-gold macaw
(Ara ararauna)	
Ara ararauna -Singapore BirdPark-6.jpg
80–90 cm (31.5–35.5 in) long. Mostly blue back and yellow front. Blue chin and green forehead. The upper zone of the bare white skin around each eye extending to the beak is patterned by lines of small dark feathers.	Panama, Colombia through to south-central Brazil.
Green-winged macaw
or red-and-green macaw
(Ara chloroptera)	
Ara chloroptera -Gatorland-6.jpg
90 cm (36 in) long. Mostly red, with blue and green wings. The bare white skin around each eye extending to the bill is patterned by lines of small red feathers.	South America, from Colombia through to northern Paraguay (formerly northern Argentina)
Blue-throated macaw
